Project description

This project will collect, clean, and format spatial data on plastic recycling and existing recycling infrastructure (e.g., materials recovery facilities and recycling plants) across the U.S. from publicly available sources (for instance, the EPA Recycling Infrastructure and Market Opportunities Map). The student will use the data to conduct different statistical analysis, such as regression modeling, to assess how recycling rates vary with other variables, including infrastructure distribution and capacity, landfill tipping fees, bottle bills, and relevant economic indicators. The intern will summarize the interpretation of the data and other results in a final report and, ideally, in a scientific publication. The findings will inform data-driven planning for increasing plastic recycling rates. We will publish our datasets and analysis scripts in an open-source repository (e.g., GitHub). 

Project outcome

In this project, the student will gain experience in employing data science for research that addresses critical sustainability challenges. Specifically, they will deploy skills related to data collection, cleaning, formatting, analysis, and interpretation. They will also gain insights into plastic recycling infrastructure and policy approaches to increase recycling across the U.S. The student will improve their writing and communication skills by developing reports and delivering presentations on their research (in one-on-one meetings with the supervisor and group meetings). They will summarize the interpretation of the data and other results in a final report and, ideally, in a scientific publication. They will also get experience publishing our datasets and analysis scripts in an open-source repository (e.g., GitHub). 
